---
name: "Sidney Miller"
img: yes
img_path: /img/_board_members/sid3.gif
---

Mr. Miller is the founder and publisher of Black Radio Exclusive (BRE), the first and oldest trade publication dedicated to highlighting and exploiting the world of urban music. Sidney started his career in music as a musician and as concert promoter while attending Florida A&M University (FAMU) in Tallahassee, Florida. His classmates included famed musicians Nat and Cannonball Adderley. After serving his country in the U.S. Army, the former First Lieutenant eventually joined Capitol Records. While at Capitol Records, he managed the entire promotions deptartment providing promotional strategies for such diverse acts such as Helen Reddy, the Fortunes and his former classmate Cannonball Adderley. Upon forming his own management and promotions company, Sidney created marketing strategy for the landmark soundtrack to the movie "Car Wash" which became at that time MCA Records largest selling soundtrack.

In 1976 noting the lack of attention given to black music which accounted for over 60% of the $6 billion music industry, he launched BRE which has grown from its initial 1,000 copies to an internationally read publication. His annual BRE Conventions have brought together the "movers and shakers" of both the entertainment, civil rights and political worlds where vital information has been shared in an effort to further advance the cause of black music and those who create and market it. The highlight of each convention was the awards dinner where winners received the "Drummer Award," which was commissioned by the publisher to represent the African tradition of mass communication. Sidney has proven to be a visionary, which lead to his creation of the first syndicated satellite program "Hollywood Live," hosted by the late legendary radio programmer Frankie Crocker. Today satellite broadcasting is the norm but Sidney as the saying goes was "slightly ahead of his time." In addition to being on the LLC Board, Sidney is involved in the National Academy of Recording Arts and Science's (NARAS) MusicCares Foundation, the Evander Holyfield Foundation, Washington D.C. Music Commission among others. He has received numerous awards including the prestigious NAACP Image Award.