---
name: "Ray-Harris"
img: yes
img_path: /img/_founders/ray-harris-founder.jpg
---

Ray Harris is the Founding Chairman of The Living Legends Foundation.  He created the organization, and help to draft its original By-Laws well as getting the organization incorporated in 1991. He served as Chairman until 1997. He currently sits on the Advisory Board of the Foundation.

RAY HARRIS  held the position of  RCA Division Vice President Black Music from 1980-1982. He had total P&L responsibility for his division which included A&R, Promotion, Marketing, Sales and Publicity, and overall administration. This was a rare position for anyone of color in the early 80’s. During his tenure at RCA he worked with Superstar, and established artist such as: Nina Simone, Diana Ross, Friends of Distinction, Main Ingredient, New Birth, George Clinton, Edwin Starr,The Tymes, Hall & Oates, Ahmad Jamal, and Whispers.. Broke and established artist such as: Evelyn “Champagne”King, Brainstorm, DJ Rogers, Odyssey, Dr. Buzzard’s Savannah Band, John Lucien,Instant Funk, Skyy,Hues Corporation, Stephanie Mills, Chocolate Milk, Memphis Horns, Carl Carlton, Vicki Sue Robinson, Silver Convention, Shalamar,Lakeside,Midnight Starr,Dynasty, Carrie Lucas, Salsoul Orchestra amongst others.

I n 1982 RAY HARRIS, relocated to Los Angeles to accept a position as President of Solar Records, continued working on the successes of Whispers, Lakeside, Midnight Starr, and established Klymaxx, and the Deele. In 1985 he left Solar Records to form his own consulting and production company. It was during a stint as consultant to Avant Garde Management in 1988 that he accepted a position as Vice President of Black Music Promotion for Warner Bros. In 1990 he was promoted to Senior Vice President of Black Music & Jazz Marketing & Promotion for Warner and Reprise Records. During his tenure at Warner/Reprise Records he worked with superstar, and established artist such as: Prince, Quincy Jones, Chaka Khan, Miles Davis, George Duke, Sheila E., Earth, Wind, & Fire, Cameo, George Benson, Al Jarreau, Michael Franks, Little Jimmy Scott, Roger Troutman & Zapp, Frankie Beverly, Morris Day & the Times, Hiroshima.Broke  and established artist such as: Karen White, Tevin Campbell, Keith Washington, Ice-T, Big Daddy Kane, Take Six, Biz Markie amongst others.

In 1995 he left Warner Bros. Reprise Records, and joined Epic Records in Jan. 1996 in the position of Sr. Vice President Black Music, working with such superstar acts such as: Michael Jackson, Babyface, and Luther Van Dross, as well as working with Brownstone and breaking and establishing Genuwine.He left Epic Records in 1997.

Ray, whose motto is “Each one teach one”  has won every major industry award given including induction into the BELSA (Black Entertainment And Sports Lawyers Association) Hall Of Fame and was by honored by his native Harlem, NY by receiving the Adam Clayton Powell Award by Adam Clayton Powell Foundation. He was awarded the Impact Music Publication’s “Record Executive of The Year Award” for a record breaking 5 consecutive years (1990-94). The award was later renamed the “Ray Harris Award” for deserving executives.  Ray has received over 75 Platinum & Gold awards for the artist he’s represented over the years.