---
name: "E.J. Williams"
img: yes
img_path: /img/_advisory-board/EJ.gif
---

E.J. "Jay" Williams, Jr. returned to the network radio industry in 1999 as President of American Urban Radio Networks (AURN), America's largest black owned network radio company, which has more than 475 radio station affiliates. In this role, he has responsibility for sales, marketing, advertising, program development, promotion, public relations, research, strategic planning, new ventures and corporate development. Through over 300 programs weekly, AURN reaches more than 25 million listeners each week. Before joining AURN, Mr. Williams was chairman and chief executive officer of Strategic Communications Group from 1993-1999, an international marketing and management consulting firm which provided strategies for broadcasting, media, film, religious and corporate clients. Jay worked with clients in France, Canada, England, The Bahamas, Japan, and throughout the U.S. Mr. Williams' history in network radio began in 1986 when he joined Sheridan Broadcasting Network as director of sales and marketing. In 1998, he was appointed President of Sheridan, where he developed three new programming networks and a promotions division. This resulted in the creation of more than 40 new national programs, and entry into international radio syndication. Mr. Williams served as an architect of the merger then brought AURN into being, when Sheridan and National Black Network formed a partnership in 1991. He then served as co-president before leaving to start SCG in 1993.Mr. Williams' entry into the broadcasting business began with Westinghouse Radio (Group W-now Infinity Radio, part of Viacom) at KYW Newsradio in Philadelphia in 1981. He quickly moved to Sales Manager and then to National Sales in New York. In December of 1984, he became Sales Manager of 1010 WINS Newsradio-New York, the largest station in the Westinghouse Radio Group.