---
title: Buzzy Willis
name: Buzzy Willis
inducted: '1998'
img: nil
img_path: nil
---

Winston Willis, better known as Buzzy has been a true innovator and industry pioneer for all of his 25+ years in the music industry. Born and raised in Harlem, Buzzy thrived on the creative and cultural energy that surrounded him. He attended De Witt Clinton High School and was a member of The Solitaires, a high school doo-wop group that was later inducted into the R&B Hall of Fame. After school, he worked as a stock boy for Royal Roost/Roulette Records before going away to Case Western University in Cleveland, Ohio, on a basketball and scholastic scholarship. Back from college, he didn't miss a "note" but continued his career in music doing local promotion for MGM/Verve Records.   

Mr. Willis then joined the staff of RCA Records in New York and proved he had the "Midas touch." With a string of gold records to his credit, his ride to the top was in meteoric style. He holds the distinction of being the youngest Vice President of that company and for creating the first Black Music Division for the label. It was under his guidance that the careers of Jose Feliciano, The Main Ingredient and Hues Corporation were nurtured. Buzzy Willis still found the time to pursue his graduate studies at Pace University in marketing.   

His astute business savvy did not go unnoticed and he was soon recruited by Phillips Electronics Corporation (parent company of Polydor/Polygram Records) to be the Senior Vice President of all American Operations. Always rising to the challenge, Mr. Willis proved that he could conquer the context of corporate politics by being instrumental in the acquisition of Mercury and Verve Records by Phillips. In his capacity as Senior Vice President, he was responsible for the marketing strategies for such world renowned artists as James Brown, Joe Simon and Millie Jackson. A true trailblazer, it was time for Mr. Willis to conquer new territory, so he accepted the position of Chief Executive Officer of CTI Records, the largest jazz record label in the world. Once again, it was the innovative marketing skills, industry acumen and innate creativity of Mr. Willis that propelled the success of jazz greats Grover Washington Jr., George Benson, and Esther Phillips. He was personally responsible for music industry's first platinum jazz album - "Mr. Magic" by Grover Washington, Jr. Respected by many as a marketing genius, Mr. Willis created the blueprints of success for such artists as the multi-platinum Kool & The Gang, Sister Sledge and Alexander O'Neal.   

In May 1996, Mr. Willis launched One World Entertainment, Ltd. in partnership with The Sanctuary Group (UK), one of the largest management firms in Europe. OWE, Ltd. boasts on impressive roster that includes the likes of Bon Jovi, Iron Maiden, Wasp and Halloween. The Sanctuary Group is partners with the BBC, producing three specials a year for the network.

  OWE, Ltd. provides a myriad of services such as artist management, tour direction, record production, contract negotiations, video production and concert tour promotion. As President and CEO of OWE, Ltd., Mr. Willis and his partners Robert "Kool" Bell and industry veteran Cecil Holmes have assembled a collection of talent that is on the cutting edge and represents today's hottest sounds. Unlike so many of his contemporaries that are confined to the parameters of a specific category, Buzzy Willis has proven that his abilities transcend the barriers of musical genres. OWE Ltd., in union with 89 5th Records, Inc., will feature contemporary music crossing all musical genres and also provide manufacturing and distribution services for new labels.   

An active community leader, Mr. Willis has been recognized for his personal as well as professional contributions. He has been named Young Businessman of the Year by the New York Urban League and the National Council of Negro Women. Listed in the "Who's Who in America," he was appointed Minority Market Consultant for the Department of Defense under the Carter Administration, Entertainment Consultant to the United Nations' 50th Anniversary and was named Chairman of the Cultural Affairs Commission of Jersey City, New Jersey.  Winston "Buzzy" Willis remains one of the most influential movers in the music industry.
