---
title: Willie Barney
name: Willie Barney
inducted: '1998'
img: nil
img_path: nil
---

Willie J. Barney was raised by his aunt and uncle in Chicago, IL. His entire family eventually relocated to Chicago where he attended Rosenwall High School. After graduation, he worked in a print shop and later worked for a clothing manufacturing company. He looked forward to his visits to the barber shop where his father worked because across the street was a very popular record store that was owned and operated by The Wright Brothers, the hottest juke box operators in the area.  Mr. Barney was always intrigued by the whole process of record releases and new singles. He recalls that “in those days you had to order your single and wait two weeks for delivery." He vowed that as soon as his finances would allow, he would open up a record store. His chance came in 1953 when he was only 25 years of age, and with no prior knowledge, but bubbling over with enthusiasm, Mr. Barney said good-bye to the world of 9 to 5 employment and became the proud owner-operator of his own business. In the same building that he decided to set up shop, he created a space for his father to operate his own barber shop. When he viewed the sign hanging over the door, "Barney's Swing Shop," he knew he had arrived.   

He soon found out it takes more than a dream to make it. Hard work, tenacity and good judgment are equal ingredients in the "American Dream." Feeling that the original name lacked market appeal,  Mr. Barney changed both the name and location of his store to its current address, Barney's One Stop Records. It was not long before Barney's One Stop Records became one of the most popular retail outlets in Chicago, and enjoyed the reputation of attracting some of the biggest names in show business. Nancy Wilson, Lou Rawls, The Temptations, The Isley Brothers, Aretha Franklin and "The Greatest" - Muhammad Ali, are among the many celebrities who have visited the store. Scores of plaques adorn the walls of the establishment in recognition of the store’s participation in the platinum and multi-platinum success of countless artists.   

Willie J. Barney cited his "staying power" as the accomplishment for which he is most proud. He outlasted many of his competitors and claims that in his 45 years of operation he has seen a countless amount of businesses come and go. He reflects with some degree of chagrin that "it is not easy for a minority business to flourish" and "raising capital for improvement and expansion could prove to be a difficult task to the Black entrepreneur." He could still recall his bitter disappointments at being rejected for loans, when others, with less credentials were showered with financial aid and support.   

Determined to improve this disparity, Willie J. Barney became active in local business organizations, and to this day, sits on the board of the 24th Ward Business Association, The Chicago Chamber of Commerce and the Greater Westside Development Corporation. The proud father of five, Willie J. Barney has relinquished the reins of control to his two sons Raymond and Reynaldo, who now accept the responsibilities for the day to day operation of what is now a wholesale and retail establishment that provides employment for 12 area residents.

  At a time when it was not fashionable to be a successful Black businessman, Willie J. Barney succeeded against the odds. He claimed his victory and created a family business that stands tall as a trophy of his blood, sweat and tears. After 45 years in the music business, Willie J. Barney exclaims in exasperation, "I could write a book!"
